
QUADPACK is a FORTRAN subroutine package for the numerical
computation of definite one-dimensional integrals. It originated
from a joint project of R. Piessens and E. de Doncker (Appl.
Math. and Progr. Div.- K.U.Leuven, Belgium), C. Ueberhuber (Inst.
Fuer Math.- Techn.U.Wien, Austria), and D. Kahaner (Nation. Bur.
of Standards- Washington D.C., U.S.A.).
The routine names for the DOUBLE PRECISION versions are preceded
by the letter D.

- QNG  : Is a simple non-adaptive automatic integrator, based on
         a sequence of rules with increasing degree of algebraic
         precision (Patterson, 1968).

- QAG  : Is a simple globally adaptive integrator using the
         strategy of Aind (Piessens, 1973). It is possible to
         choose between 6 pairs of Gauss-Kronrod quadrature
         formulae for the rule evaluation component. The pairs
         of high degree of precision are suitable for handling
         integration difficulties due to a strongly oscillating
         integrand.

- QAGS : Is an integrator based on globally adaptive interval
         subdivision in connection with extrapolation (de Doncker,
         1978) by the Epsilon algorithm (Wynn, 1956).

- QAGP : Serves the same purposes as QAGS, but also allows
         for eventual user-supplied information, i.e. the
         abscissae of internal singularities, discontinuities
         and other difficulties of the integrand function.
         The algorithm is a modification of that in QAGS.

- QAGI : Handles integration over infinite intervals. The
         infinite range is mapped onto a finite interval and
         then the same strategy as in QAGS is applied.

- QAWO : Is a routine for the integration of COS(OMEGA*X)*F(X)
         or SIN(OMEGA*X)*F(X) over a finite interval (A,B).
         OMEGA is is specified by the user
         The rule evaluation component is based on the
         modified Clenshaw-Curtis technique.
         An adaptive subdivision scheme is used connected with
         an extrapolation procedure, which is a modification
         of that in QAGS and provides the possibility to deal
         even with singularities in F.

- QAWF : Calculates the Fourier cosine or Fourier sine
         transform of F(X), for user-supplied interval (A,
         INFINITY), OMEGA, and F. The procedure of QAWO is
         used on successive finite intervals, and convergence
         acceleration by means of the Epsilon algorithm (Wynn,
         1956) is applied to the series of the integral
         contributions.

- QAWS : Integrates W(X)*F(X) over (A,B) with A.LT.B finite,
         and   W(X) = ((X-A)**ALFA)*((B-X)**BETA)*V(X)
         where V(X) = 1 or LOG(X-A) or LOG(B-X)
                        or LOG(X-A)*LOG(B-X)
         and   ALFA.GT.(-1), BETA.GT.(-1).
         The user specifies A, B, ALFA, BETA and the type of
         the function V.
         A globally adaptive subdivision strategy is applied,
         with modified Clenshaw-Curtis integration on the
         subintervals which contain A or B.

- QAWC : Computes the Cauchy Principal Value of F(X)/(X-C)
         over a finite interval (A,B) and for
         user-determined C.
         The strategy is globally adaptive, and modified
         Clenshaw-Curtis integration is used on the subranges
         which contain the point X = C.

   Each of the routines above also has a "more detailed" version
with a name ending in E, as QAGE.  These provide more
information and control than the easier versions.


   The preceding routines are all automatic.  That is, the user
inputs his problem and an error tolerance.  The routine
attempts to perform the integration to within the requested
absolute or relative error.
   There are, in addition, a number of non-automatic integrators.
These are most useful when the problem is such that the
user knows that a fixed rule will provide the accuracy
required.  Typically they return an error estimate but make
no attempt to satisfy any particular input error request.

  QK15 QK21 QK31 QK41 QK51 QK61
       Estimate the integral on [a,b] using 15, 21,..., 61
       point rule and return an error estimate.
  QK15I 15 point rule for (semi)infinite interval.
  QK15W 15 point rule for special singular weight functions.
  QC25C 25 point rule for Cauchy Principal Values
  QC25F 25 point rule for sin/cos integrand.
  QMOMO Integrates k-th degree Chebychev polynomial times
        function with various explicit singularities.

Support functions from linpack, slatec, and blas have been omitted
by default but can be obtained by asking.  For example, suppose you
already have installed linpack and the blas, but not slatec.  Then
use a request like  "send dqag from quadpack slatec".


[see also toms/691]
